Interview with Mr. D.A. Anderson, side four.
When we were talking about the place of changing
the voting to at-large, and maybe we've mentioned
this before, but you said that things were not
being, things on the council weren't able to be
done. There was always the opposition from... And
then, knowing that they went in, you know what I
mean, with a very limited number of votes, this
wasn't right. And the people were worked up, as I
indicated earlier. They came to the council, and I
gave them an opportunity to see them turn down
things that I wanted passed, that the people
wanted passed. And they just refused right before
the eyes of the public. And that made them mad
enough that they wanted to send around a petition
to get them off the council. So I told them we'll
just wait. It wasn't too long before I could get the
time period. before they went off to council. And
then they came wanting to know who I wanted to put on
the council. And so we got everything squared up
for the next election. And when the next election
came, why, we had these other council members. And
then we approached the subject of more equity in
voting. And so then the voting lines were changed.
Well, they've been changed several times since.
When the ruling came, for example, and the
students could vote, that imposed another
problem. So, that was something else. And
they were changed then. So, in essence, that's it.
Have you already mentioned when we said that they
kept things from being done, what kind of things
were they stopping? Well, I couldn't get anything
passed. Oh, okay. I mean, it was a matter of
anything that I wanted, you know. We weren't
making any progress at all in the city.
We just wanted to go, but we couldn't go. I mean,
it's time. and we were no longer a little community
and we had to think big and move big and move out and
as you know when you're reading why from then on why
you didn't make very strident moves towards doing
a lot of things we mentioned the library Well, you
can go into any of the areas in the area that we were
trying to turn it with. In the old days, you know, my
city manager got picked up a car every year. And
then the next year, or the year that he picked up his
new car, well, the police chief got the other car
that he had. I mean, that's the way everything was
passed on. from one to the other. And they got
through, or went through the sewer to, well, sewer
disposal plant, or some other plant. And
incidentally, there is a report someplace in
there, too, where, of course, I had a good friend in
Garrison, he was head of the Department of Public
Safety in Washington. And this is the only city in
the state of Texas where he did this, and he did this
as a favor to me. Now, he originally from Luffman,
and I used to live in Luffman, and I knew him very
well. And I wanted to know if he would come in and
evaluate our police department, let me know what
we needed, what was good, what was desirable, and
so on. So he sent in two or three men, sometimes
every
three men, to evaluate and make a report to me and
the city council on our police department. And
they went with the department. They covered
everything from the type of uniforms to their guns
to their weakness in training, every aspect of law
enforcement. and this was very very good because
it pointed out not only to me but to other council
members where all the weaknesses were in our
police department in terms of its future
expansion i mean we have something to go about
which we haven't had and this is the only city in the
state of mexico Did you run into it? No, I didn't.
But it did ring to mind when I did run into it, and
that was a fire department. Was it also during this
period that you and the council decided to try to
establish a college station fire department? Oh,
yeah. Totally did. Right. And remove yourself
from A&M? Yeah. Yeah. But this enabled us to move
out because, you know, they wore different
uniforms. Should we buy things? Should we buy the
yachts? Should we buy the uniforms? You know, what
would strengthen the department and all this
stuff.
We've got an excellent report. I have pride in
myself. You know, this is one other area that I
wanted
to improve and I'm glad that DPS did it. I'm sorry
again that I didn't make a copy of that. There are
certain things that I don't understand. The same
thing with that Negro report that they went from
house to house. That was a pretty
expensive report. They told me, they said, now
we've made a lot of surveys for the city, but we're
not saying it was accurate. This is
accurate. And of course there are places on which I
helped them on too. But that report is something we
need to prioritize more. And that other report
will be the only one of its kind. The DPS turned it
down. No other city got that service.
That's one of them. Did a lot of College Station's
growth and your
concern about the growth of the city spring from
the fact that A&M was also growing at that time?
Yeah, sure. You know, you could see, you could
sense the growth coming more and more. The day
would come, not too far distant, that you would
need the blockchain right. And there's still You
know
what I mean.
There are still those that grind. I don't
know whether you're aware of what's going on at the
Humana Hospital. No, I'm not. Humana wants to get
out of there and come out. They didn't get any
support from certain crime people when they were
trying to expand. I don't know whether it was
political or not, but... They're just,
they don't want the crawler station to get you in
any circumstance. And there's a committee formed
that way. Leave no stone unturned to be sure that
the crawler station doesn't give you any lessons.
It's resentment. That's some of the following.
They dread, they just would rather, I mean, it's
funny because... People's
good are set aside for, I guess, for a type of
vanity. Yeah. I'm not sure the word. Yeah, yeah.
Well, it's a, you know, you have to understand a lot
of that background sometimes and appreciate
some, you know, certain things. And having gone
through a lot of it myself, you know, going over
there. I'd like to talk
about the lawsuit that was brought against the
city during your term. And I was wondering how the
lawsuit evolved and what Boyan's purpose in
bringing a suit against the city. Well, he said
that
we were holding two offices in trust.
We held a position with the university and either
councilman or mayor with the city of Colorado
State. Now, what prompted that? Now, that had
previously come up. You may have seen the attorney
general opinion of 1938
you read that and they said it was all right and they
have said it was all right right along up until that
period
uh this was an effort by him to uh i know he was after
me but he got the whole council now What brought
this on was the matter of zoning that he didn't like
over in this particular area. That was his domain.
He was being elected on 21 votes. You know, he was
throwing his weight around. He had money. It was
very interesting during the end of the year to see
how, well I better not say that.
Well, no, that's all right. He disliked the
treatment he was receiving because he couldn't
have it his own way. He had some trouble with the
university earlier. He had trouble with the
student body and whatnot. But be that as it may, he
resented very much So, he brought this suit. He was
no longer counsel. He went around and picked up
some things and got Joe married. And how Joe got on?
He dropped out? Yeah, it took him quite a bit of
money to drop out. Right, about $200,000. Oh, it
took him more than that. We were laughing about it
the other day. He picked up my, every time I went, he
picked up my check. He still apologizes to me for
that. But at any rate, they brought this suit and
brought us into court here. And Judge Davis has
worked more than I did. Well, Bill is a friend of the
university, a friend of the city council, a friend
of the county. Bill was, you know, just, do you know
Bill Bishop? I don't know him. Oh. Does he still
lie? Oh, he was very, you know, very well-liked,
and we liked him for sitting on the judge
continually, and he didn't think we'd have a lady
to stand on and voted in our favor. And Boyette made
the statement that he's going to carry this work to
the U.S. And he has the money. And look at the money
he's still making at that time. He has no choice.
Does he own the land? All of those stores are leased
by him. But
be that as it may, he was
determined that
he was going to bring home the U.S. Supreme Court
instead. So he took us over to the district court in
Boston. And the judge over there .
Oh, really? Over in Boston.
Over in Joe? Yeah, in Joe. Was it Brendan for you? I
didn't realize that. That's another story. But he
then ruled this area. We had to go over there twice.
Oh, he never did rule. Boyad carried it down to the
District U.S. Court in Houston.
And the federal judge ruled. It was a surprise to us
when it came. that the ruling of the Attorney
General wasn't there and that we were out. I mean,
we had to be out. And there was nothing else he could
do beyond that. I mean, he had gone. He had the money
to do it. We were criticized for letting the city
pay The attorney,
we hired an attorney in Houston, and the city paid
for it. I forgot what the amount was. But O.E. and
his were the two sides of that. That was the only
protection we had. Otherwise, but we... They won.
Well, then it was following this that I took the
action that I did independently and passed it down
to them. All right, buddy, if you think
you got me, go ahead. And then I did. I did. I'm not
kidding you with that. I worked a day and night,
blood, sweat, and tears, too. I was determined
that I would protect the Constitution. So, I mean,
you took the lead in the state and moved. Oh, yeah. I
was the only one that did it. I had to. Even though it
affected others? Oh, yeah. It's like it affected
school districts? Oh, yeah.
Yeah, there was a principle involved. You know, I
just... I just couldn't have,
you know, I couldn't lay down. I just had to go. So,
we won. Eddie wanted me to go back as mayor, and I
said, no, I've got to go back now. Oh, really? I was
wondering why he never returned. Oh, I don't know.
It was a bad thing. He wanted me to run for county
judge. I didn't want that. I didn't care. It was a
problem for me. I don't know. Some of them wanted me
to run for mayor at that time. I
wouldn't want it. No, there's a lot
going on. Well, you know, I've had my share of that.
Why go in? I haven't been to, you know, a lot of
people. For some of them, for some of the
old-timers, they still expect me to run around
with a tie and a coat. You know, old people, for some
reason. Well, during the trial, Boyant couldn't
explain, I mean, his ulterior reason was that the
city wasn't allowing him to do what he wanted him to
do. No, no, no. He didn't bring that up. Right,
right. What he was trying to say is that we were
holding two offices in trust. His ulterior motive
was never brought up. Well, I mean, how did he show
that it affected the city... in a harmful
way?
Well, there was no business
people who were representative of it. We needed
people who were on the city council to represent
the business interests. Actually, we didn't have
too many people of business. This was really a
university community. Right. Primarily. He was
saying that the council was doing things
specifically for Indians. Well, he, in part of the
court proceedings, he accused us of that. For
example,
the lighting on the other side of the campus. Oh, he
brought up the underpass.
He always brought that up. I
never understood him because he was worth
millions of dollars. He never helped. He never
contributed
to a student body. You know what I mean. He never
contributed anything. Kind of like he resented
the university for some reason.
I
don't know. He had all the money he needed. He had
his summer home up in the lake. I've been up on his
plane for years. We got along great. Invited up
there. There
were other
people that signed the suit, and there was a
question of whether or not the people really knew
what they were signing. Did they realize that they
were going to bring a suit against the city? Joe
did, he said. Do you know how, the way it
represented it in San Diego? Oh, no. Well, I heard
Joe say, you know, we need to petition. We need to
get more business people on the city council. Now,
the business people were the few motels that were
here, Western and Joe at that time. And let's see,
was there another one? Oh, yeah, there was one
across the street. Well, there were a few motels,
service stations, there was a bank. You know what I
mean. They were representing the business
community. And other than Boyette, the others
didn't seem to be playing. But, oh, now there were
some, there was a grocery store in Southside,
the dentist, and a few things like this. But
really, they weren't concerned as much as Boyev
was. He, I think this was mainly an excuse in terms
of, you know, his feeling towards those who looked
at him this way. There were others on the council,
of course, objecting to it. Well, after I got in and
got the other, you know, had my way there, why, uh,
Marcy couldn't, couldn't do anything for me. I
didn't make sure that, uh, We thought it was
proper and just. Well, was he upset that he had lost
the election? Oh yeah, he had it. Yeah, he didn't
even speak to me. And he eventually died. I felt
sorry
for
him, too. He was somewhat of a loner. I think
he was turned on by another organization. He was
turned on, and I think he was at that meeting. I
think he was not an extrovert. I'm not sure. He was
very spontaneous.
That's part of it. Some of the council members
resigned, and you still stayed on. Do you remember
encouraging people to run? When was this? Well,
during the suit.
The ruling came through that you could not hold
office and receive your warrant. Yeah, some of
them. So they were forced to resign. Yeah, I went
off for three
months. I don't know when the others went off.
Well, you were the last to leave before Jim Dozier.
Jim Dozier stayed on. Yeah, he was the one that
remained until I think the... I think the Texas
Supreme Court wouldn't hear it, and it would take
several years before the Supreme Court could hear
it. I know it was all appeal. But in the meantime,
she didn't check with me. No, no. That's what the
wife told me. You can't eat unprincipled. You
can't eat unprincipled, right. But... Do you
remember encouraging Mr. Vaughn or Mr. Luther to
come? Oh, yeah, I encouraged him. I was really
behind. What we did, maybe this wasn't proper, but
I thought it was. I had sort of a committee to get
together, made up of people from different areas
of the city. And we sat around the city hall and I
said, you know, we need to put in office some people
who y'all think would serve and would do a good job
for the city. And I said, I don't know who they are,
you know what I mean, but I would prefer that we
discuss it and come to some agreement as to who
would best serve our community. And if we are so
inclined, why, maybe all of us can agree to support
them. I said, I don't know who they may be, but, you
know, whoever, we all might pick one name. So we
did. We didn't have any pressure on us, for sure.
So, names like Dan Davis came. He went over and
that's all
right. He represented people, represented very
well the people over there. And, you know, they
were still working with the other person.
Representing the old recycling of the city. Well,
that was good, you know. They had a picture of, you
know, that would be good. So I said, well, I want you
all to support him. And everybody in the
department said, yeah, but you think Dan would
make a good company. So I went to see Dan, see if he'd
serve, and he went and prod him a little bit, and his
wife. I finally got him to serve. And the same thing
came up about Lindsey. Lindsey's up here, he's a
college hero. He's well known in the university.
You know him. They go through all the rigmarole and
run off to just pray. Yeah, you got Lindsey to run
and do what's up. I'd go and see Lindsey at the end of
the month. He agreed to serve. And we did that to get
things started. And it worked out very well. I
didn't mean that they wouldn't agree or disagree
with me at the table, because we've had some strong
disagreements. But at any rate, they were honest
disagreements.
So we did this for a while, and I thought it was very
successful. Because we could get people,
otherwise we wouldn't, you know, we couldn't get
people. Because if I came to you and asked you to
run, you'd say, well, I don't know anybody, I don't
have any support, but if I told you, well...
There's 12 people, you know, from all areas of the
city. You know, they vote for you and possibly, you
know, give $5 or $10, which, you know, any campaign
expenses you can add, you'd be more inclined to,
you know, accept it or at least think about it
seriously. And in this way, we've got a pretty big
cross section. We've got an engineer, we have a
sociologist, Cliff Lansdell was an engineer, Joe
McGrath worked with a planter, but he was back in
something. But I mean, we had a good mix across the
country. And we got along good together. Oh, we had
some, you know, some words between us once in a
while, and that was to be expected.
So, this served for a while, and then that idea was
dropped in favor of others who wanted to run and
enter the game together. Well, are you saying that
this committee used law very newly? Oh, no, no, no.
No, just after the... Just after the thing to get,
you know... To get people on the council. Right.
Right. Right, okay. This is after you were mayor,
but the city went back to the ward system, and it was
kind of a court-ish type of a matter. And do
you remember getting
under the condition to either recount the vote, or
just... called
him into the ballot, because apparently he read
very badly in the ballot. And so it was about 1976,
and he was sitting, put on the ballot, picked a boy,
and went back to the vote system. And... Oh, well,
you know, that was just... That was just a hazy
recollection. You remember that? But I don't
think I'll ever do that again.
Oh, well, anyway, basically, the city went back
to the ward system for just two years, and then as
soon as the waiting period was up, they pushed
back. Yeah. I forget. I remember it, but I don't
recall. I wish I'd gotten over what I had on the
study out here in the back. Yeah. It would refresh
me. I looked at some of
that material for about three weeks. It was
interesting to run across things that I had almost
forgotten about. Well, one thing that you have
referred to is the historic rivalry between . This
is,
it has been going
on for such a long time. Right. Are you going to make
it before? Yeah, they, I think it started a long
time ago. You know, the student body, they had a
problem with the student body in crime. Then we
incorporated in 38, anything like that. And then
they came out and stole part of our schooling. For
example, Roseberry was part of college study. A
lot of people, we thought it was in our area. And
they came out one night and took that. They used to
be six miles before we took in crime. And they came
down and expanded their boundary one night
through to Rosemarie and all that area right up to
our tunnel. Was this at the time of incorporation?
No, no. This was the second time. Yeah, right
after. Yeah, they... They came up and took in
Rosemary. Well, the people that lived there were
university people. That moved out on that
particular area. It wasn't in Brine at the time.
And it was in our little consolidated school
district. And when Brine took it in, when I went to
Brine, we went to the Brine Independent School
District. And it hurt our little school down here.
So that created it. You know, it was following
that, that day we heard they were going to take me
into an airport. And you know, just when they were
going all the way around us. So we got together, and
that particular night, we passed on first reading
that all the university land is considered part of
City College Station. And that's why, you know,
when you look at the map, it's so expensive. Be that
as it may, that was part of this early, you know,
misunderstanding between us. Now I did, I did
institute, went there, now again, papers,
newspapers weren't at the meeting. The system
whereby, well now this was in the era of Jack Zuby,
and what's her
name?
What was her name? I went through several layers of
crime. No, no, she wasn't a mayor, but she was a very
dominant figure in the crime commission. And I
instituted meetings with the crime commission at
the Monaghan, whereby we need to be honest with
each other and not pull these tricks. The first
meeting, when I spoke to Michael, I didn't come out
and it was very plain as to the purpose of the
meeting. As far as I was concerned, I enjoyed the
fellowship. We could sit down and have a drink
together. We could have a good meal. You know, we
separated ourselves so we could make it again. But
I wanted us to, if we're going to fight each other,
let's do it in a dynamic way or in a sense that We're
not all caught short all the time on short ends of
the stick. Otherwise, we're just going to fight
with each other. So I wanted us to let our hair down
and let each other know what we were planning to do,
what we intended to do in our respective city. And
this way, maybe we could coordinate or cooperate
with many projects. At that time, we were getting
quite a bit of water coming. a grind and we still get
some but they they had us over the night and we
resolved them to our satisfaction so we didn't
have too much of a problem but we we had problems and
uh So we would meet every two months
while I was there. The whole term? Yeah. Five
years? Yeah. And then, you know, I'd bring a board
and show them the related things that we were
doing. Or had planned it for what we had done since
the last round. Just to enlighten them. And they,
in turn, jacked Zuby. And a couple others on the
front. And they did the same thing. And for a while
there, we had excellent
rapport. I mean, you know, they could start
something, but, you know, and so that we wouldn't,
you know, you don't want to be cut. Yeah, right. So,
but then along came the open meeting law, and
that ended up affecting everything, and we
couldn't do that. because he couldn't say things
something without you don't mean maybe something
you didn't want to pay for a while yet you wanted to
work up the data presented to the people come out
with a half-cocked idea and that's just like this
way for
the council that's an exception one person was
before the last vote. And when they had the last
vote on the path, the mayor voted for it away from
them. I mean, they were influenced by the
Republicans. And they were made by them. And they
shouldn't do that.
You know, you have a tendency to be influenced by
people, but sometimes you have to go against the
tide for the betterment
of more
people. And some people are reluctant to do it.
That's something that I don't know whether they
did right or wrong in this matter before, because I
didn't know both sides myself sufficiently. Was
it still a possibility that you didn't do it then?
Oh, well, I'm doing this on my own. Well, a lot of
them are interested in what I find out about the
city, but I'm doing this on my own. Oh, but the plans
are for sure? Well, they are for now. Oh, for now.
I'm sure it's fine.
Excuse me, I have an allergy. My nostrils are
clogged up. Well,
for the most part, yeah. I tried to get over. Now, we
have this problem, as I explained to you about the
taxing and these things. And it took a while to get
all these going. You can't do everything, you
know, overnight. It took me a long time
to
write up that
plan. And then I worked up the scheme for the
library and all of that kind of stuff. I believe
that's all that I have. If there's anything that
you might want to add, but this has been most
helpful as far as just locating different
aspects. Well, if there's anything, you know,
when you're writing, if there's anything that you
come across that you think that might help, let me
know. You know, I may be able to think, or I might be
able to check on some of the stuff that I have. Oh, I
really appreciate that. Because I've noticed,
you know, just a little writing that I've done, I
have questions, I have a lot of material, but then
there's something that I'm used to. Well, you
know, with all the letters that you read in the
file, the whole story's going to change. That's
right, I know. I know it is. It's like, what's his
name over at the library?
You know, he's working on a document. He wrote it.
He's writing a history of Texas sports. Oh, with
David Chapman. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I worked under
him. Oh, you did? Uh-huh. Oh, okay. Well, I
provided him with a lot of stuff. And I still
haven't read what he worked up. Apparently he did a
good job, and he checked a lot of, well, I don't
know, laboratory, Washington Museum, any other
places. I
have some
material here that goes back to the early days.
Some other stuff. But I still haven't read that. I
want to get a copy of it. I'd like to see what it says
on it. and a
little bit of a period of time. I want to see how it
fits. I mean,
with the
university. Oh, with the university. Oh. Yeah.
Yeah, but yeah. Oh, just one of these period of
time. I was acting director after five. We
had a very severe fire situation going on in the
condo. We had all foods out next door. Bones were
burning. The foundation came out and set up the
canteen, and the Red Cross was out there. The Rocky
Mountains came down and left a spectacular
splash. the law and they were broadcasting all of
the information. All of the foreign stories, you
know. I was under the gun from the university and
then the industry, the forest
industry, crying out to do something. All this was
going on. We were losing personnel that
were going to other agencies and so on. I was just I
had a hard time. What year?
Was it at the same time you did it? No, I think it was
before. I was going to say, I hope you wouldn't have
all those troubles all there at one time. Well, I
did work up, well, I don't want to give a big
difference, but it seems like I've been bragging a
lot about it. I had
a few brownie
points with him, but he went off while he took a
brownie point. But he and his office call one day,
they wanted to send them quick and line up on some of
the things I'd been engaged with. I'm not going
to